---
layout: post
title: ARHT day 3
date: 2012-05-27 17:00:13 +13:00
---
I've been away the last two days, so no work as been done on the project. The last day was interrupted by Monaco F1 free practice :)

I now have the project all set up with Prism, and integrated with my default set of libraries, including Ninject for the DI.

The plan for today is to get SQL CE 4 running with EF Code First, and get the aircraft manager in place. If this goes well (unlikely), then I'd like to get the mission builder built, validating, and create the DB records to match.

Another thing I might implement is a modification of something I currently do as standard.  I have an IConfiguration interface, and two classes which implement it, one using the NINI library, and the other using a set of database tables which are part of my default data set. I inject one of the two implementations based on the application type.  I usually keep a flag in the config marking that initial setup has been completed. If not, then the user is forced to complete the setup when the app runs.
I might modify this, so that rather than keeping a flag, I validate the config every time on load. If anything fails validation, I can then display the config screen.
As well as automatically testing for anyone breaking the config, it also allows me to add new config options in the future, which require a value. There's usually a default value for each option, but I feel it's better to prompt them for it. I recently added default email settings to Fusion (my core web interface), so prompting for a default sending address is ideal.

##Update: 12:38

This is going much better than expected. Everything is just binding. Reminds me again how awesome the Microsoft stack is right now. I've used my ISession interface and created a custom EF repository for this project which is getting DI'd.  Going to add a set of fields for adding a new aircraft now and see how that works.

##Update 16:19

I've got that all working. I also managed to get the EF validation attributes working in WPF, which will be nice for DIVA one day. I've hacked it in explicitly to the model for now, but I'll write a base class for it one day.

Starting to get the hang of WPF/XAML. Got lots of data triggers on buttons and controls now, changing text and visibility.  It really makes a lot of sense when it finally clicks.
